AUGUST 26, 2009
Declarative Rules
Ques: How many declarative rule types we have in PRPC and what are they?
Ans:
These can be created under Decision Category.These can be created under decision category. 

     These are Auto excecutable rules in PRPC. 

We create declarative rules and use properties in it. 

Wherever we use the properties which involved in declarative rules, PRPC automatically 
excecutes the respocive declarative rules. 

Thus these declarative rules will perform validations or Calculations or excecute the activities etc.

         There are 6 types.

     1.Declare Expression
     2.Declare Constraints
     3.Declare OnChange
     4.Declare Trigger
     5.Declare Index
     6.Declare Page (Data Page)
	 
Ques: What does a Declarative Rule do?
Ans:
-0-0-0-0-

Declarative Rules in PEGA:

1.These are automatic execution rules, (For example, If First Name=Last Name display an error message)
 these rules will be executed anywhere in our application wherever you use (The first Name & Last Name )Property

2.These rules are created under Decision Category,these are auto executable rules in PRPC.

3.Thus these Declarative rules will perform Validations,Calculations & Execute the activities
-0-0-0-0-0
           Declarative Rule allows the automatic processing to occur as and when required.

Ques: What is Forward Chaining and What is Backward Chaining?
Ans:
           FC - The target property gets recalculated Whenever input is changed.
                    For Example, (Target Property)C= A+B(Input Properties), whenever A or B value gets changed then C gets recalculated.
           BC - The target property gets recalculated whenever the target property is used/referred.
                    For Example, C=A+B,  whenever C is used then C gets recalculated.
					
					
					

Ques: What rule is the basic foundation for backward chaining in PRPC ?
Ans:
         "Property-Seek-Method" of type Rule-Method. Generally, We use this method in activities.

Ques: What are the limitations on Declare Expressions?
Ans:
          Mainly three, thet are
   1. In PRPC versions from 4.x till 5.3, Declarative Expressions must be declared on a top level page(Work  Obect Page).
       **This limitation has been removed from V5.4 onwards.  
  
    2. Rule execution cannot get turned off - We dont have to choose, the system does it.
  
   3. The dependency network will not update, based on external data changes.
       **For example, when an expression A = B+C, if B is set by an external system(using RDB call), A will not get updated. To do so, a manual step is required in this case.